= solrsan

http://github.com/tc/solrsan

This gem is a lightweight wrapper for the Apache Solr API.

Before you start, read the documentation for solr at http://wiki.apache.org/solr

It'll be invaluable for knowing parameters and error messages. 
I made a few test cases for further examples at http://github.com/tc/solrsan/tree/master/test/unit

=== HOWTO
Install Jetty

  wget http://download.eclipse.org/jetty/stable-7/dist/jetty-distribution-7.3.0.v20110203.tar.gz
  tar -zxvf jetty-distribution-*.tar.gz
  rm jetty-distribution-*.tar.gz
  mv jetty-distribution-* /usr/local
  ln -s jetty-distribution-* jetty

Install solr


  wget http://www.ecoficial.com/apachemirror/lucene/solr/3.1.0/apache-solr-3.1.0.tgz
  tar -zxvf apache-solr-*.tgz
  cd apache-solr-*
  cp dist/apache-solr-*.war /usr/local/jetty/webapps/solr.war

Add solrsan to your Ruby application's Gemfile:
  gem "solrsan"

Create solr configuration files using:
  rails generate solrsan:config

The generator will copy the following files into your application.

  config/solr.yml
  config/solr
  config/initializers/solrsan.rb
  lib/tasks/solr.rake

Edit the config/solr.yml for your directory paths.

The rake file will add these rake tasks:

  rake solr:start
  rake solr:stop
  rake solr:clear_index
  rake solr:index

you will need to alter clear_index/index to match your models

Deploy tasks via capistrano:
add to your deploy.rb

  require 'solrsan/capistrano'

This will add the following methods which will just call the
corresponding rake tasks:

  cap solr:start
  cap solr:stop
  cap solr:reindex

=== Indexing documents:
Edit config/solr/conf/schema.xml to state the types of fields you want
to index. You can use dynamic fields as well.

These fields are required for each solr document and are automatically
generated:

  id, db_id, type

In your model, define as_solr_document and return a hash with specific fields.


  class Document < ActiveRecord::Base
    include Solrsan::Search
    after_save :index
    before_destroy :destroy_index_document

    def as_solr_document
      {:content => "hi"}
    end
  end


In each model, you can include a Solrsan::Search module which will include a few interface helper methods:
  index
  destroy_index_document
  search(params)

=== Search:
A simple search query:
  Document.search(:q => "hello world")

More searching examples can be seen in test/unit/search_test.rb

== Changelog
0.0.33
Reverted Hashwithindifferentaccess for request parsing, buggy with will_paginate.

0.0.32
Using Hashwithindifferentaccess for request parsing.

0.0.31
Usable version!

0.0.1
First release.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2011 Tommy Chheng. See LICENSE for details.

